[Q]: Launchpad HOW-TO

[A]: Marat Khalili (marat@trans.msu.su)

/**/
rexxtry call RxFuncAdd 'SysCreateObject', 'RexxUtil', 'SysCreateObject'; call
SysCreateObject "WPLaunchPad", "New LaunchPad", "<WP_DESKTOP>"

(Все в одну строчку, только что сам запускал).

[A]: Will Morgan (1:3819/128.103)

                Как сделать несколько pазных LaunchPad-ов

Try this!

(First off, you might want to enable the "Create archive with each
system reset" option via the Desktop's settings/archive menu. Disclaimer:
if you mess up your system, don't blame me...Everything I'm listing is
working great on my system right now...But if you enable the afore mentioned
archive function, and reboot in able to get you ONE GOOD SYSTEM CONFIG
in your queue of archives before you try anything...Trust me, this extra
little bit of trouble is WORTH IT for the security!!!)

You'll have to undo whatever work you have already put into your Launchpad,
but in the long run, it's worth it! And if you take my suggestion of enabling
the Archive function, if you don't like what the results, all you'll have
to do in order to get your previous configuration back is as simple as doing
a reboot and hitting ALT/F1 while the white square is on your screen during
the bootup process (or turn it on with a default timeout) and then choose the
time/date stamped config from the recovery menu that you enabled previously.

Like I said, you'll have to delete *EVERYTHING* via the shredder on your
Launchpad. When you are left with nothing but the shredder, pop up the
Launchpad's menu and choose COPY. If you copy the LP back to where ever
it currently resides, you'll be prompted for a filename because it's
trying to copy the same file to the same directory. Give your "new" LP
a name like TEMPLATE or something easy to remember. (I even made a FOLDER
and named it LAUNCH PADS and dropped both the "original" LP and the newly
created "TEMPLATE" into it...You'll see why, later!)

Now, that you have a "TEMPLATE" to work with, you can go back and put the
programs you previously configured back on your "original" LP. The reason
I specified for you to get rid of everything was the first time I tried this
with an exact copy of my fully configured LP, whenever I deleted a program
from the "mirror" of my LP, the same file would delete itself from the
original! But if you make the EMPTY template LP, this quirk won't happen.
Once you've gotten your LP back up to speed, then comes the fun....

Let your mind wander and think of any group of files you'd want to put on
a special "new" LP...For example...An LP with just GAMES (I put DOOM,
DOOM II, and various incarnations of DOOM with 3d party WAD files
preconfigured: just put -file doom.wad in the "parameters" window of the
Doom game's setting & specify c:\doomdata in the working directory and
it works just fine)...I set it to run vertically up and down the right side
of the desktop while the original LP runs horizontally left & right at the
bottom of the desktop! I imagine you could even put one of your new LPs
into the STARTUP folder and it would launch along with your original LP!

Another idea would be to configure yourself a "LAUNCHPAD CONTROL PANEL"!
Copy your "TEMPLATE" to a name like "LP CTRL PANEL" or something similar
and *ONLY* drag & drop all your *OTHER* LPs onto it...If you configure
your "original" LP like this, your new LPs are only a click away. Or you
could put CONTROL PANEL LP into your startup folder and start it along
side your original...The possibilities are endless!

This little suggestion really unleashes the power of the Launch Pad...Just
think of any group of files that you might want to combine...Say, a Word
Processing LP that has various document templates on it; the GAMES LP; a
COMMUNICATIONS LP; get creative! If the overhead on LPs is only minimal
like mentioned, you can do some wild configs to meet your desktop needs!

[A]: Alexander Belyaev (2:5035/13.15)

Перевод:

   Как сделать несколько pазных LaunchPad-ов ( пусковых панелей )

Попробуйте это!

(Вначале неплохо было бы разрешить опцию "Create archive with each
system reset" ["Создавать архив при каждом запуске системы"].
Предупреждаю: если вы, не дай бог, прибьете вашу систему, не пинайте
потом меня ногами.)

Разрешив данную опцию, вы получаете возможность восстановить прежний
десктоп, нажав при загрузке Alt-F1.
Итак, во-первых, удалите со своей пусковой панели *все* объекты, отправив
их в шреддер. Когда у вас ничего не останется ( кроме шреддера ), вызовите
на пусковой панели всплывающее меню и выберите пункт COPY. Дайте копии
панели другое имя ( например, TEMPLATE или еще что-нибудь простое )
Я у себя даже сделал специальную папку, назвал ее LAUNCH PADS,
и переместил туда обе панели - исходную и копию. Зачем - узнаете дальше...

Теперь у вас есть готовый "шаблон", можно поместить на старый
LaunchPad все ваши программные объекты.

После всего этого можно понаоткрывать сколько угодно LaunchPad-ов и каждый
со своими установками. Hапример, автор создал себе отдельный LP специально
для игры в DOOM и поместил на него кнопки с дополнительными уровнями, а сам
LP расположил сбоку и вертикально, в то время как исходный LP находится у
него внизу и расположен горизонтально.
